# Test Plan

The purpose of this test plan is to define testing strategies to include all the functional and non-functional 
requirements; techniques used to select test cases and ensure coverage; bug tracking procedures and lastly list test 
cases at each test levels.

**Author**: **Team26**

## 1 Testing Strategy

### 1.1 Overall strategy

#### 1.1.1 Unit Testing Strategy

Unit testing will first be performed to ensure the functionality of each modules individually. Each method of each 
classes will be tested to ensure it behaves exactly as expected. Unit test cases will be prepared by the QA manager
based on the requirement specifications and executed by application developers during software construction phase. 
Thus any faulty module can be fixed immediately rather than let it exist and then cause some major issue in the
integration phase.

#### 1.1.2 Integration Testing Strategy

Integration testing confirms that each piece of the application interacts as designed and that all functionality is
working. Integration testing includes interactions between all layers of an application, including interfaces to other
applications, as a complete end-to-end test of the functionality. Integration test cases will be prepared and executed
by QA manager and should cover all possible interactions or paths between each modules. Other team members will review
the test cases to make sure the functional coverage.

#### 1.1.3 System Testing Strategy

The purpose of system testing is to make sure that the software system developed complies with the definition of the
software requirements. QA manager will be preparing test cases that cover all scenarios for the requirements and these
will also be reviewed by other team members.

#### 1.1.4 Regression Testing Strategy

Regression testing is to make sure that the software behaves well after code revision. Retesting for fixed bugs will be
done by QA manager and resolved by respective developer.Not only test cases that focused on the changed software
components should be retested, other modules should also be checked cause defects may propagated to other modules. 


### 1.2 Test Selection

#### 1.2.1 Unit Test

White-box testing techniques will be used to verify that the code does what it is intended to do at a very low structural 
level for each individual class. Test cases are selected based on the formal model of the code structure. 
For example, the tester will write some test code that will call a method with certain parameters and will ensure that 
the return value of this method is as expected. Looking at the code itself, the tester might notice that 
there is a branch (an if-then) and might write a second test case to go down the path not executed by the first test case. 

#### 1.2.2 Integration Test

Both black and white box testing techniques will be used for integration testing. The tester verifies that units work together 
when they are integrated into a larger code base. Just because the components work individually, that doesn’t mean that 
they all work together when assembled or integrated. For example, data might get lost across an interface, messages might not 
get passed properly, or interfaces might not be implemented as specified. Test cases for intergation tests are selected 
from a list of all possible interactions between different components.

#### 1.2.3 System Test

Black box testing technique will be used for the system testing. Test cases are selected based on the test case specifications 
generated by the software's requirements. Each test case represent a different use case that satisfy one specific requirement. 
All scenarios or paths should be covered based on the component diagram. 

#### 1.2.4 Regression Test

Both black and white-box testing will be used for regression tests throughout all testing cycles to verify that 
modifications have not caused unintended effects and that the system or component still complies with its specified requirements. 
Regression tests are a subset of the original set of test cases. These test cases are re-run often, after any significant changes 
(bug fixes or enhancements) are made to the code. Since regression tests are run throughout the development cycle, there can be 
white box regression tests at the unit and integration levels and black box tests at the integration and system test levels.
The following guidelines should be used when choosing a set of regression tests:
- Choose a representative sample of tests that exercise all the existing software functions;- Choose tests that focus on the software components/functions that have been changed;- Choose additional test cases that focus on the software functions that are most likely to be affected by the change.


### 1.3 Adequacy Criterion

For unit testing, test cases are selected to ensure branch and condition coverage. All boundary conditions and error exceptions will be included in the test cases.

For integration and system tests, QA will be preparing test cases that cover all scenarios for the requirements and map test cases to respective requirement to ensure the coverage for requirements. Peer review will be conducted by other team members.

### 1.4 Bug Tracking

Github Issues will be used to track ideas, enhancements, tasks or bugs. Feedbacks from all team members can be collected via a central bug tracker.

- Deal with your issues just like you deal with email
- Create and apply labels to issues to assign to users or categorize
Drag and drop issues to prioritize them
- Vote on issues that you want to see tackled
- Search, sort, and filter
- Close issues from commit messages

### 1.5 Technology

- Eclipse IDE with an android simulator/android device is used to develop and test the application.
- For unit testing, JUnit will be used for each classes.
- Integration and System tests will be done manually. 

## 2 Test Cases

| Purposes | Steps | Expected Result | Actual Result | P/F |
|---------------------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-----|----|
| Customer management | In system main, click manage customers button | go to customer management page |  |  |
| Payment management | In system main, click manage payments button | go to payment management page |  |  |
| Add a new customer | In customer management, select add customer; input customer info and confirm | go to customer page with the newly created customer |  |  |
| Do not allow adding duplicate customer | In customer management, select add customer; input customer info of an old customer and confirm | show "Customer already exist" and not create a duplicate sutomer |  |  |
| Edit customer | In customer management, select edit customer; edit customer info and confirm | go to customer page and update customer information |  |  |
| Get customer | In customer management, select get customer; input customer info and confirm | go to customer page of the requested customer |  |  |
| Getcustomer show error if no customer is found | In customer management, select get customer; input a new customer info and confirm | return no matched customer found |  |  |
| Show customer's transaction history | In customer's page, select transaction history | displays a list of transaction history |  |  |
| Cannot process payment for unregistered customers | In payment management, select process payment; input a new customer info, payment amount | return "no matched customer found, must add customer info first" |  |  |
| Process a payment for non-gold customer who do not use reward | In payment management, select process payment; input customer info, payment amount, do not use reward | display a complete transaction showing date, amount and discounts applied (no); update total purchase |  |  |
| Process a payment for non-gold customer who use reward | In payment management, select process payment; input customer info, payment amount, use reward, reward amount | display a complete transaction showing date, amount and discounts applied (yes), MoneyDiscount; update total purchase |  |  |
| Process a payment for gold customer who do not use reward | In payment management, select process payment; input customer info, payment amount, do not use reward | display a complete transaction showing date, amount and discounts applied (yes), GoldMemberDiscount; update total purchase |  |  |
| Process a payment for gold customer who use reward | In payment management, select process payment; input customer info, payment amount, use reward, reward amount | display a complete transaction showing date, amount and discounts applied (yes), GoldMemberDiscount, MoneyDiscount; update total purchase |  |  |
| Get reward | process a payment which total price after discount is >= 100 | customer's cumulative reward is added by $10 |  |  |
| Send an email to customer when he receive reward | process a payment which total price after discount is >= 100 | an email is sent notifying the customer new reward amount and accumulative reward amount |  |  |
| Achieve gold status | process a new payment and customer's total purchase in a calender year >= 1000 | customer's gold status is true |  |  |
| Send email when gold status is reached | process a new payment and customer's total purchase in a calender year >= 1000 | an email is sent notifying the customer he/she has achieved gold status |  |  |


### REFERENCES

- http://agile.csc.ncsu.edu/SEMaterials/BlackBox.pdf
